# I4.0 - Chatbot module

This module adds chatbots to I4.0.

## Service configuration parameters

### What is `modified_by_user`?

The **modified_by_user** parameter allows the user to change this parameter when true (only for one inference). When false, the parameter in the model configuration (or service configuration of not found) will be forced and cannot be changed by the user.

### What is `default`?

It's the default value of the parameter. If the parameter is in the model configuration, it will be overwritten for that model only.

### Parameters

#### `temperature`

Controls the randomness of generated text by adjusting the probability distribution over possible next tokens.

Lower values will produce more predictable results, higher values will have more creativity.

#### `top_p`

Determines which tokens to consider when generating a response, based on cumulative probability.

#### `top_k`

Specifies how many of the most likely tokens should be considered when generating a response.

#### `top_n_sigma`

Selects tokens whose pre-softmax logits exceed a threshold measured in standard deviations.

#### `min_p`

Adjusts the sampling threshold based on the model's confidence.

#### `typical_p`

Controls the randomness of the output by adjusting the probability distribution of token selection.

#### `seed`

Controls the randomness of the model's output.

Setting this to `null` or `-1` will randomize this parameter for each inference.

#### `presence_penalty`

Discourages the model from repeating words or phrases it has already used.

#### `frequency_penalty`

Discourages the model from repeating words or phrases by lowering the score of tokens that have already been used.

#### `repeat_penalty`

Discourages the model from repeating words or phrases by applying a penalty to tokens that have already appeared.

#### `penalty_last_n`

Controls the repetition penalty for the last N tokens generated by the model.

#### `tools`

Allows the model to execute tools. Tools can't be specified in the configuration, only disabled/enabled.

#### `tool_choice`

Specified which tools the model can utilize during function calling. This parameter can't be changed in the configuration, only enabled/disabled.

#### `tool_start_token`

Default tool call start token for the model. When this token is generated by the model, the tool calling will begin.

#### `tool_end_token`

Default tool call end token for the model. When this token is generated by the model, the tool calling will stop.

#### `max_length`

Maximum generation length.

#### `test_inference_conversation`

Conversation that will be tested for the model.

#### `test_inference_configuration`

Configuration for the test inference.

#### `allow_assistant_prefill`

Allows the usage of the `assistant_prefill` parameter. This parameter can sometimes crash the program with some models.

#### `channel_start_token`

Defines the start token for the channel. Example: `<|channel>` for Gemma 4.

#### `channel_end_token`

Defines the end token for the channel. Example: `<channel|>` for Gemma 4.

#### `channel_name_end_token`

Defines the token that will separate the channel name from the channel content.

Example:
```plaintext
<|channel>thought
thinking process...<channel|>
```

In this example, the token would be `\n` and the channel name will be `thought`.

#### `channel_default`

Default channel name.

Recommended to set to the response channel.

#### `channel_null_name`

Only used when `channel_name_end_token` is **null**, meaning the model only has two channels (usually thinking and response).
This will be the name of the thinking channel.

#### `channel_change_token`

Token that will be sent to the client when the channel changes.

Example: `\n` yields "\n" when any channel is changed. `{"A": "\n"}` yields "\n" when the channel "A" is changed to any other channel. `{"A": {"to": "B", "token": "\n"}}` yields "\n" when the channel "A" is changed to channel "B". `null` or an invalid dictionary will ignore this parameter.

#### `replace_roles`

Dictionary of roles that must be replaced. For example, `{"person": "user"}` will set the role of all the messages with the role "person" to "user".

## Model parameters

TODO
